[AGM-1649] Update logcat.md (#223)
AdguardTeam/KnowledgeBase: docs/adguard-for-android/solving-problems/logcat.md

---
title: How to get system logs
sidebar_position: 4
---

:::info

> This article covers AdGuard for Android, a multifunctional ad blocker that protects your device at the system level. To see how it works, first-hand [download the AdGuard app](https://adguard.com/download.html?auto=true)

Reviewer: To see how it works for yourself/firsthand, [download the AdGuard app](https://adguard.com/download.html?auto=true)
/

:::

> Sometimes a regular log may not be enough to identify the origin of the problem. In such cases a system log is needed. Below is the instruction how to collect and get it: via Developer options and Logcat. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes a regular log may not be sufficient to identify the origin of the problem. In such cases a system log is needed. Below are instructions on how to collect and get it: via Developer options and Logcat. 
```

## Capture a bug report from a device

To get a bug report directly from your device, do the following:

1. Be sure you have [Developer options](https://developer.android.com/studio/run/device.html#developer-device-options) enabled.

2. In **Developer options**, tap **Take bug report**.

![Bug report *mobile](https://cdn.adtidy.org/public/Adguard/kb/newscreenshots/En/Android3.1/bugreporten.png)

3. Select the type of the bug report you want and tap **Report**. 

> > After a moment you get a notification that the bug report is ready (see figure 2).

Reviewer: ::: note

After a moment, you will see a notification that the bug report is ready (see Figure 2).

:::

5. Send this log to our support team.

> > Note: Our support team will process your ticket much faster if you specify the HelpDesk ticket number or the GitHub issue number in your message to support.

Reviewer: а ты чего адмонишн удолил?..

Author: а это потому что текст из Настиного пра, видимо в апреле еще не было возможности юзать адмонишны?

## Capture a bug report via Logcat

On devices with Android 7 and below, it is not possible to send a bug report automatically. Then you can capture it manually via Logcat — a standard Android command-line tool that dumps a log of system messages.

Follow this instruction:

**Part #1: prepare the device**

1. Switch device to the developer mode. To do this: go to
 **Settings** → **About** → tap **Build Number** 7 times.

2. Go to **Developer Options**.

3. Enable **USB debugging**.

4. Increase **Logger buffer** sizes to 4MB per log buffer.

4 MB should be enough for storing the logs we need until you're able to do the second part (getting the log from the device);

**Part #2: reproduce the problem**

> It is important to reproduce the problem after you're done with the part #1.

Reviewer: I like #1 less than 'the first'

1. Reproduce the problem.

> 2. Remember/write down the date/time of reproduction and specify it in the email to our support later.

Reviewer: two slashes in one sentence are a bit too much

Reviewer: specify —> include

**Part #3: get the log**

1. Connect your device to a PC with a USB cable.

> 2. Download [Android SDK Platform Tools](https://developer.android.com/studio/releases/platform-tools#downloads). Choose the appropriate download link for your OS from the Downloads section. Once you click the link, a ZIP file will be downloaded. You can extract the ADB (Android Debug Bridge) files from the ZIP file and store them wherever you want.

Reviewer: click —> tap

> 3. Test whether ADB is working properly: connect your Android device to your computer using a USB cable, open the Command Prompt, PowerShell or Terminal  and run the following command:

Reviewer: extra space before `and run`

`adb devices`

An example of a successful result:

![Step 3](https://cdn.adtidy.org/content/kb/ad_blocker/android/logcat/logcat_step-3.png)

4. Then run the following command (insert the relevant path):

`adb logcat -v threadtime -d > C:\Program Files\platform-tools\logs.txt` 

> Email the created `txt` file as well as problem reproduction time (from part #2) to our support team at support@adguard.com.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Email the created `txt` file as well as the time the problem was reproduced (from part #2) to our support team at support@adguard.com.
```

5. Send this log to our support team.

> > Note: Our support team will process your ticket much faster if you specify the HelpDesk ticket number or the GitHub issue number in your message to support.

Reviewer: oh no, please leave the admonitions (you can check documentation here: https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/admonitions), we no longer use quote marks

Author: >>> а это потому что текст из Настиного пра, видимо в апреле еще не было возможности юзать адмонишны? [2]
